welcome to slash forward
in this episode we're going to work on
picking up this narrative as we examine
how to beat the various
jigsaw traps from saw five consider
hitting that like button to show your
appreciation for impossible flashbacks
to start i'll unpack the storyline to
see what we can learn let's get to it
we open on a rainy rooftop and zoom into
this building to find a man
shackled to a table he wakes up both
concerned and confused
when the screen turns on we learn that
this is seth being taught about the
hopelessness he has bestowed upon others
he got a short sentence on a murder
charge due to a technicality and now
it's time to explore
undiscovered aspects about crime and
punishment there is a pendulum above him
and in order to stop it he has to push
levers in two nearby devices that will
then crush his hands
he mulls it over and gives in allowing
the machinery to take his hands
but the pendulum don't stop it descends
relentlessly slowly flicking away at his
abdomen
tossing aside portions of his intestines
like poop-filled blood sausages
but he looks over and takes comfort to
know that in his final moments he's
managed to bring someone else great
pleasure we then circle back around to
the ending of the last film
strom studies the bloody scene before
getting locked in with lights out he has
no signal so it's up to him to find his
way
luckily there's a secret door easily
found and a tape player he's warned
not to proceed but he never backs down
when presented with a riddle
shortly thereafter a wild boar jumps out
to get him he wakes up sometime later
with his head inside a snuff box
the game here is that you drown any
point system you attempt to apply here
is completely negated naturally abhoring
a life without
precious oxygen he scrambles and manages
to find a ballpoint pen that he uses to
pull off a perfect blind tracheotomy
outside corbin is carried to safety by
hoffman as back
finally arrives he does his best to
muster up an appropriate level of
sadness to deliver the terrible news
nobody made it but strom's survival pops
a squat all over that sentiment we then
meet up with jill
taking care of some of the formalities
after john's death she's entitled to his
leavings which comes in the form of a
vhs tape
on it john's final vlog in which she
apologizes for
being a bit of a turd and confides he
left her in trust of the contents of a
very important box
mr feldman whips it out and jill uses
her lover's key to pop the top
closing it after the briefest of peaks
meanwhile everyone's finding closure the
jigsaw murders
are over for sure and there are
accommodations and promotions all around
for hoffman the only one from his unit
that's still alive
he takes a moment to give a quick speech
about cherishing life and appreciating
justice
then he retires to his office where he
finds a rather
cryptic message he immediately rushes
off to root through strom's personals in
the evidence locker and then is summoned
to the hospital about agent perez
from the condition of her pillow we
presume the news is not good
strom reveals that perez said hoffman's
name before she died
and he also wonders aloud how the man
standing before him now
came out of this crazy ordeal looking so
damn pretty
strom's commander then arrives to inform
him that despite the desire to get
another crack at jill tuck he's
officially off the case
thanks to his sloppy procedure around
entering that warehouse
on his own we then find hoffman in a cd
basement with red velour blankets
letting us know this is far from over he
does in fact have a lot more scheming to
do
and no time to waste as his subjects are
already in place and nearly awake sure
enough they come too and try not to geek
out about it but they know they're in a
jigsaw trap this is our first
savvy group of victims providing each
other advice and understanding the need
to seek out and avoid tripwires
billy then appears to admonish them for
leading such selfish lives
they'll have to fight their natural
instincts in order to make it safely
through these traps
each room has a global 15 minute timer
set to some nail bombs to ensure they
don't linger in any one room too long
before
or after a game in this first one they
have 60 seconds to retrieve their key
before the cable winds them back into
their decapitation cubby but to succeed
they have to work together
malik starts tripping the game timer but
charles jerks him off and instead scores
the first key for himself
luba gets to second then brit and malik
get it done as well
poor ashley struggles with the task and
never even gets her bat
off the shoulder leaving her to be the
sole victim when they finish the door
opens
easy peasy brit then goes ahead and
gathers all the keys just in case they
come in handy later we then transition
over to hoffman
trying to reach strom when he's
unavailable he leaves a message with his
supervisor eriksen requesting a callback
we find out that strom is unavailable
because he's busy performing a covert op
the first rule of which is cell phones
off he pulls some records and makes a
connection between hoffman's sister
and her killer's subsequent entrapment
in a jigsaw puzzle on his way out he
gets spotted by the boss and plays it
off like he's just wrapping some stuff
up before his much needed vacation when
in reality he's taking a city tour of
various jigsaw victim locations
as he delves into the mind of a killer
we transitioned to hoffman on scene
relishing in the thrill of being called
back to investigate his own victim
also i'd say justice was served he finds
affirmation
i got you uh nothing we just witnessed
was previously a secret back at the fun
house the crew
is heeding my advice taking things slow
and declining to close doors so they can
gather as much information as possible
beforehand
of course malik is a constant hindrance
to lucid thought they do figure that
several of them are related through
connections to a large
shady real estate transaction which
charles is aware of as an investigative
journalist
unfortunately they're forced to close
the door to avoid the prior bomb which
requires them to focus in on the task at
hand there are four chambers that will
protect them from the fire bombs in the
room but only three keys to be found
malik steps up but charles makes a
practical calculation takes his wagon
stick to him before breaking all the
jars
however since turnabout is universally
deemed fair play
luba crams charles's head and the other
three duck away is the bombs pop when
the temperature drops the others step
out to observe the floor smear that
once was charles we then circle back to
strom taking another trip into the
office where he learns that after seth's
pendulum death
hoffman was involved in every subsequent
jigsaw investigation
we then flashback to see that his
cryptic message had itself been a
flashback which led up to his first
encounter with john kramer
jon had some qualms about having his
name attached to work that wasn't his
he also doesn't approve of his vapid
methodology which
lacks nuance and a learning plan but he
offers the option of them working
together
jon can help put a little polish on his
new hobby and hoffman can help him clean
up the streets
if a subject survives my method he or
she is instantly rehabilitated
uh hasn't happened yet since jon has an
evidence package ready to ship if
anything happens to him hoffman doesn't
have much of an option but also since we
know hoffman's a watcher
this likely appeals strongly to his
latent perversions
as strom heads out erikson gets around
to returning hoffman's prior phone call
he was just checking in to see if strom
had any luck with his theory about an
additional jigsaw accomplished from on
the inside
planting some seeds in eriksen's mind
drum continues his tour of the local
crime scenes which are apparently
still mostly intact he flashes back
again to details he couldn't possibly
know
and that also don't help his
investigation this reveals that hoffman
was involved in helping to keep tap on
gordon's tale and that their
preparations involve anticipation
and chance dependent on a deep intuition
of human behavior
back at the third room they talk a bit
more but malik's not too concerned with
the why
he just wants to get on with the how so
they close the door and get started
there are five circuits in this room
they need to be closed via the bathwater
in order to undo the five locks on the
door
luba openly expresses her idea to use
malik as the conduit which makes her
untrustworthy which manifests in brit
casually killing her with the dirty part
done there's little hesitation in
getting her hooked up and skeeve
freaking daddling into the next room
meanwhile back at fbi headquarters jill
tuck has come to confront supervisor
eriksen about being followed by agent
strom setting some alarms to buzzing in
his head
at that moment strom has reached his
most familiar crime scene
here's where jon set into motion the
events from this movie
entrusting hoffman alone expecting
amanda to fail strom then becomes
bafflingly enraged by the sudden
epiphany they were
all supposed to die you were supposed to
be the hero
yeah where have you been as the
machinations unfold we see hoffman pull
a classic cranky anchor on erickson with
strom's phone
this causes him to become suspicious and
order a trace but hoffman's turned it
off
until he gets back to the lab where he
turns it back on this is happening right
as our duo
arrives at the last room this trap
appears to require them to stick their
arms into a box and feed it their blood
in order to open the door
malik first suggests brit try out her
key collection just to make sure
and he recognizes there are five holes
right as she recognizes
all five keys from the first room are
the same the revelation here is that
each game was meant to be easier through
teamwork and allow
five survivors your lifelong instincts
will try to do one thing but i implore
you to do the opposite
right how did you not get that with a
bomb timer now running out they're
forced to close the door
now they're stuck trying to figure out
how to give an uncomfortable volume of
blood for just two people
elsewhere hoffman exits the precinct and
gets himself tailed by strom this is
right as strom's colleague gets a lock
on his phone and alerts erickson to its
location strom follows hoffman to a
residence and enters
gun drawn pursuing him into a basement
back in the room and facing death
malek confesses he burned down a
building for an ounce of smack
and brit puts together that they all
took some part in accepting bribes to
destroy
steal and redevelop a property the
conspiracy and cover-up allowed them all
to walk away
scot-free despite the fact that their
actions resulted in the deaths of eight
individuals
recognizing they deserve to be here they
both strap up for the grand bloodletting
i can barely think of a more unnerving
way to give blood but they get her going
regardless and plunge
unnecessarily deep i mean how are you
gonna stop that yeah they get the door
open but at what cost
meanwhile eriksen has arrived on
location and goes in solo which he
previously punished sram for doing i
just thought i'd mention that but it
works out because he gets in there just
in time to share in the celebration of
the survivor's success
after ordering an ambulance he calls
strom's phone which goes off right next
to him this pretty much seals the deal
for him
and he puts out an apb for his boy which
at this point
may be a wasted effort as strom
eventually reaches the end of the road
and finds a trap
and a tape he's commended for his
performance and informed his only chance
to survive the room is to get into the
box
but he hears hoffman coming and doubles
back fisticuffs ensue resulting in strom
closing hoffman into the box however we
learn this to be a demonstration of his
mastery of human behavior
as the trap revolves around strom's
inability to trust others and is
revealed to be the negative space in the
room
the box is actually safety hoffman is
slowly lowered into the floor as the
room closes in
trash compactor style giving hoffman a
satisfying crimson shower on his way out
i can see the flower of this ongoing
storyline blooming but i have to assume
at least
one of the final films in the series is
a standalone i guess we'll have to keep
watching to find out
as a side note i'll be examining these
traps as presented in the film
it was blatantly obvious that these
traps were supposed to be solved as a
group so much so that i assumed it was
just the
character's terrible nature overriding
their thinking that caused them to
behave the way they did
it did not occur to me until the ending
that they actually didn't realize they
were supposed to work together
regardless if they had done so each of
the traps is almost
trivially easy and since these solutions
were counted off
in the movie itself it doesn't make a
lot of sense to approach it that way
here but before we get to the death
house we have to go back and take a look
at seth's pendulum we'll have to ignore
for a moment that this is a revenge trap
designed to result in a slow and painful
death with his full understanding of why
he's being punished
this is certainly satisfying but i'm
trying to help
you and i know you didn't murder anyone
and get off on a technicality although
being a death trap we have some pretty
extreme limitations the 60-second timer
is severely tight and seth is fairly
well locked down to the table
he also went through with the challenge
but was denied his victory
not being able to take the word of the
psychotic mastermind of your demise on
good faith is a
significant hindrance so assuming we're
not going to crush our hands it should
be noted that you wouldn't be able to
see the collar holding you down
but it is the only solid restraint that
prevents you from moving
more than a little bit at the end we see
that it was released through some sort
of gear mechanism
and just sort of opens up with no
latches or other sorts of blocks or
disconnects this would be the sole focus
of your efforts
the one advantage here is that the arm
restraints are very forgiving and the
straps are way too high on the forearm
they allow a significant amount of
travel so that you can mostly freely
move your arms
if you couldn't just reach the neck
restraint and attempt to force it open
you could definitely reach your forearms
and unstrap them to achieve
full range of motion from that point
it's mostly a matter of working on that
neck collar
which would mostly come down to
engineering tolerances
how tight are these pieces and what kind
of fail-safes are involved
i know it's supposed to seem substantial
but the way it opens implies it's a
couple of mechanical arms attached to an
intricate gear driven mechanism
which sounds like a delicate and
intricate device it appears to be
attached to a hinge on the table
rather than being a more substantial bar
system that locks
under the table or is a full ring
something simple and sturdy with
hands-free i believe you'd be able to
pull this thing open
or use leverage to wrench it free of the
table once you sat up you'd have more
time to address your ankles
except hoffman would be there ready to
try to come in and kill you but there
also seem to be a ton of random detritus
lying around so from here i would wish
you luck
next up is the snuff box again this is a
trap by definition a puzzle by
association only the intent here is to
kill
also strom successfully escaped the trap
so his method is one
obvious option assuming most people
wouldn't want to utilize such a high
risk strategy as it would likely fail
there seems to be a couple more
possibilities to try out
first close-ups of the box reveal the
bottom is rubber lined
to keep it water tight however the
underside of the box reveals that it's
actually just straight rubber now he
probably declined to try to pull his
head downward through it
because that would simulate the
sensation of being born feet first
a condition we are genetically
predisposed to resist
i would encourage at least giving this a
go to see if he can but if not perhaps
he could use the pen to puncture the
lining rather than his throat
of course if the hole in the lining
isn't bigger than the tubes it's not
going to drain
faster than it fills but he could
repeatedly stab at it and stretch it out
which would create some
opportunities also there's a limited
quantity of water
so if you could hold your breath long
enough you may be able to power through
despite the unequal drain to fill ratio
another option would be to remove your
belt to use the buckle on the glass
it would be hard to get much force built
up but it seems like you have a 50 50
chance here
the glass in the first room was old and
brittle but the glass in the box at the
end was bulletproof so depending on
which class you got here
you may be able to escape easily or you
may be left with the only option being
to cut your head off to get out onto the
rooms now
just as a precursor every room had a 15
minute global timer they could wait to
start their game
or hang out after but only up to 15
minutes
at that point the nail bombs would go
off severely injuring them
it could be possible however to negate
this factor it was noted that the bombs
appear to be powered by a c4
charge which is highly stable they could
possibly just remove the detonators to
deactivate them assuming there may be a
trap or fail safe to prevent this they
could also possibly destroy the jars and
remove the nails to limit the
destructive powers of the bombs
this could be risky however and i'm not
sure it would gain them much as the
actual time it took them to figure out
their connection to each other was
unnecessary it didn't help them solve
anything and the puzzles themselves were
fairly straightforward just to reset the
scene on the first one as soon as they
move toward the boxes they'll pull a pin
that starts the 60 second timer only one
person can proceed all the way to the
end at once as moving forward pulls the
others back
it wasn't known at the time but all of
their keys were the same they actually
only needed one key
without knowing this there's still an
easy answer to it involving simple
teamwork
send out the second and fourth person to
retrieve multiple keys and bring them
back for everyone
there's honestly no reason to go further
than that if the game relies on
unlocking your neck
shackles and you can easily acquire the
keys why complicate matters
next up is the whole room again not sure
what was confusing about this there are
four
tunnels but three keys but nothing that
says you can't cram more than one person
into a hole
why wouldn't your first instinct be to
do that also these locks seem highly
pickable
as a typical locking cylinder has a
series of springs and tumblers that are
engaged by the pattern of the key
he removed this by requiring them to
cram simple shapes into the front to
turn them
this means no tumblers or cylinders at
all these locks could be opened by any
sufficient amount of rotational force
but acquiring all the keys is not a
problem so that's basically irrelevant
the real problem here is human nature
old charles thought he was so
smart and pragmatic but it blew up right
in his face
this speaks to the human factor i said
in part 2 you would want to take out bad
actors like
xavier but this also demonstrates some
of the potential pitfalls of this
strategy once you open up the
possibility of advancing through deceit
and physical harm you degrade trust
among the group and put yourself at risk
of being eliminated
after that is the tub room this one gets
harder as you get fewer people the
intent here was for all five folks to
hold one of the circuits and step into
the bathtub
so they can share the load and safely
unlock the door this one seems to be
mostly based on fairy tale however while
tolerances can vary
based on a variety of factors the human
body can typically only withstand
approximately 10 milliamps of current
two things should be noted here one is
the survival but the other is the effect
of electricity on the body
some of you may have used a tens unit
before with the electrodes and the
calming current it runs through your
muscles
if it was set high enough you would get
the strange sensation that comes from an
external device
triggering muscle contraction put it on
your forearms and it makes you contort
your hands completely independent of
your own intentions
ten plus milliamps will induce a spasm
with enough strength that you would be
unable to release whatever you're
holding
i'm not sure about spreading this load
among multiple humans because i don't
know
that much about electricity but i don't
have to they show the meter hitting a
hundred milliamps so even if you could
share the load that's 20 per person
no one is getting out of that bathtub
this also means that accomplishing the
task as intended with three people
is impossible their only option would be
to find an alternate way to close those
circuits
if they had brought their whacking
sticks from the prior two rooms with
them that might have bridged the gap
another alternative would be to splash
around in the water real good to make
sure it's sufficiently salty
because salt water is what's conductive
and we constantly have salt on our skin
from sweat
and then try to carefully spread an
appropriate quantity of it on the floor
to make a connection between the various
implements but not too much
because they're going to need that water
for the blade box again this trap was
made more difficult by two factors
first the fact there was only two of
them but then also by the fact they
didn't bring tools with them
brit started collecting objects from the
first trap where was that thoughtfulness
throughout they had sticks in more than
one room why did they ever leave them
behind
malik rightfully pointed out that they
could use the water from the tub in the
prior room to try to fill the jar the
complication is that there is a lever
inside each hole that has to be pushed
up in order to gain access to the tubes
that fill the jar
this requires them to keep their arm
inside the device as they complete the
challenge
with all the various global and trap
specific timers and the need to
disconnect the conduits in the prior
room
it makes this one a bit tighter but
perfectly doable
as a first step if they kept their poles
they could have inserted those into the
hole in order to keep it open as they
put in the water
utilize the center holes as they would
have the shortest tubes
then use your shoes or whatever you can
to transport the water quickly and fill
the jar
it requires 10 quarts of fluid so it
would definitely require more than one
trip
however the game timer doesn't start
until they close the door
and these are all mechanical devices
it's not clear there would be a problem
with filling the jar first
then closing the door the game would
turn on register a full jar and open the
exit door
if this ends up not being possible they
do have a body in the prior room that
was killed in a way that left her
essentially full of blood so welcome to
a full jar
finally the box full of crystal meth as
i've always said
unequivocally the best way to win is to
decline to play the game
that's essentially it for this one if
strom had left and stayed gone
he would have been all good it's not
dawning on folks yet that they have to
resist their natural urges in most cases
but that's really all it took if he's
convinced he's actually doing something
in this fight all hoffman has to do is
take a dive and let him get off a hip
toss into the box and voila you're
pissing blood all over your killer's
face my friends
i'm sure at this point i'm just
reiterating to you things that you
already know
saw 5 is a lock you would handily manage
your way through any of these scenarios
with poise and confidence
of that i'm sure before we go i'd like
to give huge thanks to my donors
memorialized in the hall of head shots
[Music]
as an fyi i have a website set up where
you can support the channel through
donations or
merch any donation unlocks uncensored
movie reviews of life force and
under the skin with others to be added
over time and if you enjoyed the video
i'd love for you to become part of the
channel by subscribing
thanks for watching